PART I

Item 1. Business.

Introduction

The Home Depot, Inc. is the world’s largest home improvement retailer based on Net Sales for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016 ("fiscal 2015"). The Home Depot sells a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement products and lawn and garden products and provides a number of services. The Home Depot stores average approximately 104,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the end of fiscal 2015, we had 2,274 The Home Depot stores located throughout the United States, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam, Canada and Mexico. When we refer to "The Home Depot", the "Company", "we", "us" or "our" in this report, we are referring to The Home Depot, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number is (770) 433-8211.

Our internet website is www.homedepot.com. We make available on the Investor Relations section of our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such documents to, the SEC.

We include our website addresses throughout this filing for reference only. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this report.

For information on key financial highlights, including historical revenues, profits and total assets, see the "Five-Year Summary of Financial and Operating Results" on page F-1 of this report and Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations".

 1
Our Business

Operating Strategy 

Since 2009, we have been guided by a consistent strategic framework organized around our customers, our products and our disciplined use of capital, tied together through our interconnected retail initiative. In fiscal 2015, we announced an evolution of this strategy to reflect the changing needs of our customers and our business. The fundamental aspects remain the same, but we are now focused more than ever on connecting various aspects of our business to drive value for our customers, our associates, our suppliers and our shareholders. Our current strategic framework is comprised of three key initiatives – Customer Experience, Product Authority, and Productivity and Efficiency Driven by Capital Allocation – tied together by our interconnecting retail initiative. As customers increasingly expect to be able to buy how, when and where they want, we believe that providing a seamless and frictionless shopping experience across multiple channels, featuring innovative and expanded product choices delivered in a fast and cost-efficient manner, will be a key enabler for future success. Becoming a best-in-class interconnected retailer is growing in importance as the line between online and in-store shopping continues to blur and customers demand increased value and convenience.

Interconnecting retail is woven through each of our other three initiatives, as discussed in more detail below. For example, under our customer experience initiative, we are focused on connecting our stores to our online experience and connecting service to customer needs. Under our product authority initiative, we are focused on connecting our product assortment to local needs and connecting our customers with product information to inspire and empower them. Under our productivity and efficiency initiative, we are focused on connecting our merchandise from our suppliers to our customers by optimizing our supply chain. Overall, we are collaborating more closely, both internally and externally, through deeper cross-functional work and a more integrated, longer-term approach with our suppliers and other business partners, to build complete end-to-end solutions.

Customer Experience 

Our customer experience initiative is anchored on the principles of putting customers first and taking care of our associates. Our commitment to customer service is a key part of this initiative, and in fiscal 2015, to underscore the importance of customer service, we re-trained our store associates on our Customer FIRST program. We recognize that the customer experience includes more than just customer service, and we have taken a number of steps to enhance this initiative to provide our customers with a seamless and frictionless shopping experience in our stores, online, on the job site or in their homes.

Our Customers. We serve three primary customer groups, and we have different approaches to meet their particular needs:

•Do-It-Yourself ("DIY") Customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. Our associates assist these customers with specific product and installation questions both in our stores and through online resources and other media designed to provide product and project knowledge. We also offer a variety of clinics and workshops both to impart this knowledge and to build an emotional connection with our DIY customers.

•Do-It-For-Me ("DIFM") Customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase materials and hire third parties to complete the project or installation. Our stores offer a variety of installation services targeted at DIFM customers who purchase products and installation of those products from us in our stores, online or in their homes through in-home consultations. Our installation programs include many categories, such as flooring, cabinets, countertops, water heaters and sheds. In addition, we provide third-party professional installation in a number of categories sold through our in-home sales programs, such as roofing, siding, windows, cabinet refacing, furnaces and central air systems. This customer group is growing due to changing demographics, which we believe will increase demand for our installation services. Further, our focus on serving the professional customers, or "Pros", who perform these services for our DIFM customers will help us drive higher product sales.

•Professional Customers. These customers are primarily professional renovators/remodelers, general contractors, repairmen, installers, small business owners and tradesmen. With our acquisition of Interline Brands, Inc. ("Interline") in August 2015, we expanded our service to the maintenance, repair and operations ("MRO") Pro. We recognize the unique service needs of the Pro customer and use our expertise to facilitate their buying experience. We offer a variety of special programs to these customers, including delivery and will-call services, dedicated staff, expanded credit programs, designated parking spaces close to store entrances and bulk pricing programs for both online and in-store purchases. In addition, we maintain a loyalty program, Pro Xtra, that provides our Pros with discounts on useful business services, exclusive product offers and a purchase tracking tool to enable receipt lookup 

 2
online and job tracking of purchases across all forms of payment. This program, introduced in fiscal 2013, has continued to gain traction, with almost 4 million customers enrolled by the end of fiscal 2015.

We also recognize that our Pros have differing needs depending on the type of work they perform. Our goal is to develop a wide spectrum of solutions for all of our professional customers, such as supplying both recurring MRO needs and core building materials to large-scale property managers and providing inventory management solutions for our traditional Pro customers. We believe developing a unified approach to service all the needs of our Pros will differentiate us from competitors who are solely traditional retail, installation or MRO companies.

We help our DIY, DIFM and Pro customers finance their projects by offering private label credit products in our stores through third-party credit providers. We also help certain of our Pros through our own programs. In fiscal 2015, our customers opened approximately 3.2 million new The Home Depot private label credit accounts, and at fiscal year end the total number of The Home Depot active account holders was approximately 12 million. Private label credit card sales accounted for approximately 23% of sales in fiscal 2015. In addition, in the U.S. we re-launched our private label credit program at the end of fiscal 2015 with additional benefits, including a 365-day return policy for all of our customers and commercial fuel rewards and extended payment terms for our Pros.

Our Associates. Our associates are key to our customer experience initiative. As noted above, we empower our associates to deliver excellent customer service through our Customer FIRST training program, and we strive to remove complexity and inefficient processes from the stores to allow our associates to focus on our customers. In fiscal 2015, we began to roll out a number of new initiatives to improve freight handling in the stores, as well as Project Sync, which is discussed in more detail below under "Logistics". All of these programs are designed to make our freight handling process more efficient, which allows our associates to devote more time to the customer experience and makes working at The Home Depot a better experience for them. We also have a number of programs to recognize stores and individual associates for exceptional customer and community service. 

At the end of fiscal 2015, we employed approximately 385,000 associates, of whom approximately 24,000 were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly or temporary basis. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and wage levels in each market we serve. We measure associate satisfaction regularly, and we believe that our employee relations are very good.

Interconnecting Retail. In fiscal 2015, we continued to enhance our customers’ interconnected shopping experiences through a variety of initiatives. Our associates used second generation FIRST phones, our web-enabled handheld devices, to help customers complete online sales in the aisle, expedite the checkout process for customers during peak traffic periods, locate products in the aisles and online, and check inventory on hand. We have also empowered our customers with improved product location and inventory availability tools through enhancements to our website and mobile app, and we have invested heavily in content improvements such as videos, ratings and reviews, and more detailed product information. These enhancements are critical for our increasingly interconnected customers who research products online and then go into one of our stores to view the products in person or talk to an associate before making the purchase. While in the store, customers may also go online to access ratings and reviews, compare prices, view our extended assortment and purchase products.

We continued to make enhancements to our special order process in fiscal 2015 with our new Customer Order Management platform ("COM"), which was introduced in fiscal 2014. This platform is designed to provide greater visibility into and improved execution of special orders by our associates and a more seamless and frictionless experience for our customers. After COM is rolled out to all U.S. stores, which we expect to occur by the end of fiscal 2016, store associates, suppliers and customers will be able to access relevant special order information online, regardless of where the order was placed. In addition, we have three online contact centers to service our online customers’ needs.

We also recognize that customers desire greater flexibility and convenience when it comes to receiving their products and services. In fiscal 2015, we began to roll out Buy Online, Deliver From Store ("BODFS"), which complements our existing interconnecting retail programs: Buy Online, Pick-up In Store ("BOPIS"), Buy Online, Ship to Store ("BOSS") and Buy Online, Return In Store ("BORIS"). We expect to complete the roll out of BODFS by the end of fiscal 2016. We will continue to blend our physical and digital assets in a seamless and frictionless way to enhance the end-to-end customer experience.

 3
Product Authority

Our product authority initiative is facilitated by our merchandising transformation and portfolio strategy, which is focused on delivering product innovation, assortment and value. In fiscal 2015, we continued to introduce a wide range of innovative new products to our DIY, DIFM and Pro customers, while remaining focused on offering everyday values in our stores and online. 

Our Products. In fiscal 2015, we introduced a number of innovative and distinctive products to our customers at attractive values. Examples of these new products include EGO™ 58-volt cordless outdoor power tools (string trimmer, hedge trimmer, blower, chainsaw and lawn mower); the Husky® 100 platform of mechanics tools; LifeProof Carpet®; Milwaukee® Cobalt Red Helix™ drill bits; and Feit® Electric HomeBrite® Bluetooth® Smart LED light bulbs.

During fiscal 2015, we continued to offer value to our customers through our proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of departments. Highlights of these offerings include Husky® hand tools and tool storage; Everbilt® hardware and fasteners; Hampton Bay® lighting, ceiling fans and patio furniture; Vigoro® lawn care products; RIDGID® and Ryobi® power tools; Glacier Bay® bath fixtures; HDX® storage and cleaning products; and Home Decorators Collection® furniture and home décor. We will continue to assess departments and categories, both online and in-store, for opportunities to expand the assortment of products offered within The Home Depot’s portfolio of proprietary and exclusive brands.

We maintain a global sourcing program to obtain high-quality and innovative products directly from manufacturers around the world. In fiscal 2015, in addition to our U.S. sourcing operations, we maintained sourcing offices in China, Taiwan, India, Italy, Mexico and Canada. With our acquisition of Interline, we also acquired additional sourcing offices in China, Thailand and Indonesia.

The percentage of Net Sales of each of our major product categories (and related services) for each of the last three fiscal years is presented in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". Net Sales outside the U.S. were $8.0 billion, $8.5 billion and $8.5 billion for fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Long-lived assets outside the U.S. totaled $2.3 billion, $2.5 billion and $2.9 billion as of January 31, 2016, February 1, 2015 and February 2, 2014, respectively.

Quality Assurance. Our suppliers are obligated to ensure that their products comply with applicable international, federal, state and local laws. In addition, we have both quality assurance and engineering resources dedicated to establishing criteria and overseeing compliance with safety, quality and performance standards for our proprietary branded products. We also have a global Supplier Social and Environmental Responsibility Program designed to ensure that all suppliers adhere to the highest standards of social and environmental responsibility.

Environmentally-Friendly Products and Programs. The Home Depot is committed to sustainable business practices – from the environmental impact of our operations, to our sourcing activities, to our involvement within the communities in which we do business. We believe these efforts continue to be successful in creating value for our customers and shareholders. For example, we offer a growing selection of environmentally-preferred products, which supports sustainability and helps our customers save energy, water and money. Through our Eco Options® Program introduced in 2007, we have created product categories that allow customers to easily identify products that meet specifications for energy efficiency, water conservation, healthy home, clean air and sustainable forestry. As of the end of fiscal 2015, our Eco Options® Program included over 10,000 products. Through this program, we sell ENERGY STAR® certified appliances, LED light bulbs, tankless water heaters and other products that enable our customers to save on their utility bills. We estimate that in fiscal 2015 we helped customers save over $700 million in electricity costs through sales of ENERGY STAR® certified products and over $300 million in product costs through ENERGY STAR® rebate programs. We also estimate our customers saved over 70 billion gallons of water resulting in over $590 million in water bill savings in fiscal 2015 through the sales of our WaterSense®-labeled bath faucets, showerheads, aerators, toilets and irrigation controllers.

We continue to offer store recycling programs nationwide, such as an in-store compact fluorescent light ("CFL") bulb recycling program launched in 2008. This service is offered to customers free of charge and is available in all U.S. stores. We also maintain an in-store rechargeable battery recycling program. Launched in 2001 and currently done in partnership with Call2Recycle, this program is also available to customers free of charge in all stores throughout the U.S. Through these recycling programs, in fiscal 2015 we helped recycle over 680,000 pounds of CFL bulbs and over 930,000 pounds of rechargeable batteries collected from our customers. In fiscal 2015, we also recycled over 170,000 lead acid batteries collected from our customers under our lead acid battery exchange program, as well as over 200,000 tons of cardboard through a nationwide cardboard recycling program across our U.S. stores. We believe our Eco Options® Program and our recycling efforts drive sales, which in turn benefits our shareholders, in addition to our customers and the environment.

 4
Interconnecting Retail. A typical The Home Depot store stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 products during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary items. To enhance our merchandising capabilities, we continued to make improvements to our information technology tools in fiscal 2015 to better understand our customers, provide more localized assortments to fit customer demand and optimize space to dedicate the right square footage to the right products in the right location. We also continued to use the resources of BlackLocus, Inc., a data analytics and pricing firm we acquired in fiscal 2012, to help us make focused merchandising decisions based on large, complex data sets.

Our online product offerings complement our stores by serving as an extended aisle, and we offer a significantly broader product assortment through our Home Depot, Home Decorators Collection and Blinds.com websites. We continue to enhance our websites and mobile experience by improving navigation and search functionalities to allow customers to more easily find and purchase an expanded array of products and provide our customers with flexibility and convenience for their purchases, for example, through our BOPIS, BOSS, BORIS and BODFS programs. In addition, we invest in content, such as videos, room scenes, buying guides and how-to information, and we routinely assess our online assortment to balance choice with curation so that we provide value to our customers. As a result of these efforts, in fiscal 2015 we enhanced the customer experience and saw increased traffic to our websites, improved online sales conversion rates, and a larger percentage of orders being picked up in our stores. For fiscal 2015, we had over 1.4 billion visits to our online properties; sales from our online channels increased over 25% compared to fiscal 2014; and over 40% of our online orders were picked up in a store.

Seasonality. Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume occurs either during our first or fourth fiscal quarter. 

Competition. Our industry is highly competitive, with competition based primarily on customer service, price, store location and appearance, and quality, availability and assortment of merchandise. Although we are currently the world’s largest home improvement retailer, in each of the markets we serve there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses, and lumber yards. With respect to some products and services, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, paint stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores, MRO companies and, to a lesser extent, other retailers, as well as with installers of home improvement products. In addition, we face growing competition from online and multichannel retailers, some of whom may have a lower cost structure than ours, as our customers increasingly use computers, tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices to shop online and compare prices and products.

Intellectual Property. Our business has one of the most recognized brands in North America. As a result, we believe that The Home Depot® trademark has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our products, e-commerce, stores and business. We have registered or applied for registration of trademarks, service marks, copyrights and internet domain names, both domestically and internationally, for use in our business, including our expanding proprietary brands such as HDX®, Husky®, Hampton Bay®, Home Decorators Collection®, Glacier Bay® and Vigoro®. We also maintain patent portfolios relating to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect innovations we incorporate into our products or business operations.

Productivity and Efficiency Driven by Capital Allocation

We have advanced this initiative by building best-in-class competitive advantages in our information technology and supply chain to better ensure product availability to our customers while managing our costs, which results in higher returns for our shareholders. During fiscal 2015, we continued to focus on optimizing our supply chain network and improving our inventory, transportation and distribution productivity.

Logistics. Our supply chain operations are focused on creating a competitive advantage through ensuring product availability for our customers, effectively using our investment in inventory, and managing total supply chain costs. One of our principal 2015 initiatives has been to further optimize and efficiently operate our network by beginning initial work on a multi-year program called Supply Chain Synchronization, or "Project Sync". 

Our distribution strategy is to provide the optimal flow path for a given product. Rapid Deployment Centers ("RDCs") play a key role in optimizing our network as they allow for aggregation of product needs for multiple stores to a single purchase order and then rapid allocation and deployment of inventory to individual stores upon arrival at the RDC. This results in a simplified ordering process and improved transportation and inventory management. We have 18 mechanized RDCs in the U.S. and two recently opened mechanized RDCs in Canada. Through Project Sync, which is being rolled out gradually to suppliers in several U.S. RDCs, we can significantly reduce our average lead time from supplier to shelf. Project Sync requires deep collaboration among our suppliers, transportation providers, RDCs and stores, as well as rigorous planning and information technology development to create an engineered flow schedule that shortens and stabilizes lead time, resulting in 

 5
more predictable and consistent freight flow. As we continue to roll out Project Sync throughout our supply chain over the next several years, we plan to create an end-to-end solution that benefits all participants in our supply chain, from our suppliers to our transportation providers to our RDC and store associates to our customers.

Over the past several years, we have centralized our inventory planning and replenishment function and continuously improved our forecasting and replenishment technology. This has helped us improve our product availability and our inventory productivity at the same time. At the end of fiscal 2015, over 95% of our U.S. store products were ordered through central inventory management.

In addition to our RDCs, at the end of fiscal 2015, we operated 34 bulk distribution centers, which handle products distributed optimally on flat bed trucks, in the U.S. and Canada; 22 stocking distribution centers in the U.S., Canada and Mexico; and ten specialty distribution centers, which include offshore consolidation and return logistics centers, in the U.S. and Canada. We also utilize four U.S. transload facilities, operated by third parties near ocean ports, for our imported product. These facilities allow us to improve our import logistics costs and inventory management by postponing final inventory deployment decisions until product arrives at destination ports. We remain committed to leveraging our supply chain capabilities to fully utilize and optimize our improved logistics network. 

Interconnecting Retail. To support our online growth, in fiscal 2015 we opened the third of our three new direct fulfillment centers ("DFCs"). We expect these facilities to enable us to reach 90% of our U.S. customers in two business days or less with parcel shipping, which provides our customers with a balance of cost efficiency and speed in shipping online orders. For non-parcel orders originating from our DFCs, we have fully implemented BOSS via RDC delivery to provide our customers with a less expensive store pick-up alternative. With our acquisition of Interline, we have also added more than 90 distribution points with fast delivery of a broad assortment of MRO products.

In addition to the distribution and fulfillment centers described above, we leverage our almost 2,000 U.S. stores as a network of convenient customer pick-up, return and delivery fulfillment locations. For customers who shop online and wish to pick-up or return merchandise at our U.S. stores, we have fully implemented our BOPIS, BOSS and BORIS programs, which we believe provide us with a competitive advantage. For customers who would like the option to have store-based orders delivered directly to their home or job site, we pick, pack and ship orders to customers from our stores. We will continue our roll out of BODFS during fiscal 2016, allowing online customers to select their preferred delivery date and time windows for store-based deliveries. Our supply chain and logistics strategies will continue to be focused on providing our customers high product availability with convenient and low cost fulfillment options. 

Commitment to Sustainability and Environmentally Responsible Operations. The Home Depot focuses on sustainable operations and is committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner. This commitment impacts all areas of our business, including energy usage, supply chain, store construction and maintenance, and, as noted above under "Environmentally-Friendly Products and Programs", product selection and recycling programs for our customers.

In our 2015 Sustainability Report, available on our corporate website under "Corporate Responsibility > THD and the Environment", we reported that we had significantly surpassed our energy and carbon reduction goals set in 2010 and announced two new sustainability goals for 2020. Our 2010 goals were to reduce our kilowatt hours (kWh) per square foot in our U.S. stores by 20% over 2004 levels and to reduce our supply chain carbon emissions by 20% over 2010 levels by 2015. We estimate that we have reduced those levels by over 30% and over 35%, respectively, as of the end of fiscal 2015. From 2014 to 2015 alone, we reduced our kWh per square foot by approximately 3.6%. Our new 2020 sustainability commitments are to reduce our U.S. stores’ energy use by 20% over 2010 levels and to produce and procure, on an annual basis, 135 megawatts of energy for our stores through renewable or alternate energy sources, such as wind, solar and fuel cell technology. We are committed to implementing strict operational standards that establish energy efficient operations in all of our U.S. facilities and continuing to invest in renewable energy. Our 2015 Sustainability Report also uses the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework for sustainability reporting.

Additionally, we implemented a rainwater reclamation project in our stores in 2010. As of the end of fiscal 2015, 145 of our stores used reclamation tanks to collect rainwater and condensation from HVAC units and garden center roofs, which is in turn used to water plants in our outside garden centers. We estimate our annual water savings from these units to be approximately 500,000 gallons per store for total water savings of over 68 million gallons in fiscal 2015.

Our commitment to corporate sustainability has resulted in a number of environmental awards and recognitions. In 2015, we received three significant awards from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). The ENERGY STAR® division named us "Retail Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence" for our overall excellence in energy efficiency, and we received the 2015 WaterSense® Sustained Excellence Award for our overall excellence in water efficiency. We also received the EPA’s 

 6
"SmartWay Excellence Award", which recognizes The Home Depot as an industry leader in freight supply chain environmental performance and energy efficiency. We also participate in the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) reporting process. CDP is an independent, international, not-for-profit organization providing a global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share environmental information. In 2015, we scored 99 out of 100 from the CDP for our disclosure, placing us among the highest scoring companies in the Index and near the top of our sector. We also were named as an industry leader by the CDP and received a performance band ranking of A- (out of a range from A to E), reflecting a high level of action on climate change mitigation, adaptation and transparency.

We are strongly committed to maintaining a safe shopping and working environment for our customers and associates and protecting the environment of the communities in which we do business. Our Environmental, Health & Safety ("EH&S") function is dedicated to ensuring the health and safety of our customers and associates, with trained associates who evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a Company-wide basis. Our EH&S policies are woven into our everyday operations and are part of The Home Depot culture. Some common program elements include: daily store inspection checklists (by department); routine follow-up audits from our store-based safety team members and regional, district and store operations field teams; equipment enhancements and preventative maintenance programs to promote physical safety; departmental merchandising safety standards; training and education programs for all associates, with varying degrees of training provided based on an associate’s role and responsibilities; and awareness, communication and recognition programs designed to drive operational awareness and understanding of EH&S issues.

Returning Value to Shareholders. As noted above, we drive productivity and efficiency through our capital allocation decisions, with a focus on expense control. This discipline drove higher returns on invested capital and allowed us to return value to shareholders through $7.0 billion in share repurchases and $3.0 billion in dividends in fiscal 2015, as discussed in Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations".

Data Breach

In the third quarter of fiscal 2014, we confirmed that our payment data systems were breached, which impacted customers who used payment cards at our U.S. and Canadian stores (the "Data Breach"). For a description of matters related to the Data Breach, see Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".

Item 1A. Risk Factors.