PART I

Item 1. Business.

Introduction

The Home Depot, Inc. is the world’s largest home improvement retailer based on Net Sales for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2017 ("fiscal 2016"). The Home Depot sells a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement products and lawn and garden products and provides a number of services. The Home Depot stores average approximately 104,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the end of fiscal 2016, we had 2,278 The Home Depot stores located throughout the United States, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam, Canada and Mexico. When we refer to "The Home Depot", the "Company", "we", "us" or "our" in this report, we are referring to The Home Depot, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number is (770) 433-8211.

Our internet website is www.homedepot.com. We make available on the Investor Relations section of our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such documents to, the SEC.

We include our website addresses throughout this filing for reference only. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this report.

For information on key financial highlights, including historical revenues, profits and total assets, see the "Five-Year Summary of Financial and Operating Results" on page F-1 of this report and Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations".

 1
Our Business

Operating Strategy 

Our strategic framework is founded on our three-legged stool of customer experience, product authority, and productivity and efficiency driven by effective capital allocation, all united by the goal of providing an interconnected retail experience to drive value for our customers, our associates, our suppliers and our shareholders. The retail landscape is rapidly evolving, and our goal is to become more agile in responding to the changing competitive landscape and customer preferences. As customers increasingly expect to be able to buy how, when and where they want, we believe that providing a seamless and frictionless shopping experience across multiple channels, featuring innovative and curated product choices delivered in a fast and cost-efficient manner, will be a key enabler for future success. 

Becoming a best-in-class interconnected retailer is growing in importance as the line between online and in-store shopping continues to blur and customers demand increased convenience and value. Under customer experience, we are focused on connecting our associates to customer needs and connecting our stores to our online experience. Under product authority, we are focused on connecting our product and services to customer needs, including offering local and customized assortments to meet the unique needs of our different communities. Under productivity and efficiency, we are focused on connecting our merchandise from our suppliers to our customers by optimizing our supply chain. Overall, we are collaborating more closely throughout our organization and with our business partners to build an interconnected experience for customers that offers an end-to-end solution for their home improvement needs.

Customer Experience 

Customer experience is anchored on the principles of putting customers first and taking care of our associates. Our commitment to customer service has been and will continue to be a key part of the customer experience. But we recognize that the customer experience includes more than just customer service, and we have taken a number of steps to provide our customers with a seamless and frictionless shopping experience in our stores, online, on the job site or in their homes.

Our Customers. We serve three primary customer groups, and we have different approaches to meet their particular needs:

•Do-It-Yourself ("DIY") Customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. Our associates assist these customers with specific product and installation questions both in our stores and through online resources and other media designed to provide product and project knowledge. We also offer a variety of clinics and workshops both to impart this knowledge and to build an emotional connection with our DIY customers.

•Do-It-For-Me ("DIFM") Customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase materials and hire third parties to complete the project or installation. Our stores offer a variety of installation services available to DIFM customers who purchase products and installation of those products from us in our stores, online or in their homes through in-home consultations. Our installation programs include many categories, such as flooring, cabinets, countertops, water heaters and sheds. In addition, we provide third-party professional installation in a number of categories sold through our in-home sales programs, such as roofing, siding, windows, cabinet refacing, furnaces and central air systems. This customer group is growing due to changing demographics, which we believe will increase demand for our installation services. Further, our focus on serving the professional customers, or "Pros", who perform these services for our DIFM customers will help us drive higher product sales. 

•Professional Customers. These customers are primarily professional renovators/remodelers, general contractors, handymen, property managers, building service contractors and specialty tradesmen, such as installers. We recognize the great value our Pro customers provide to their clients, and we strive to make the Pro’s job easier. For example, we offer our Pros a wide range of special programs such as delivery and will-call services, dedicated sales and service staff, enhanced credit programs, designated parking spaces close to store entrances and bulk pricing programs for both online and in-store purchases. In addition, we maintain a loyalty program, Pro Xtra, that provides our Pros with discounts on useful business services, exclusive product offers and a purchase tracking tool to enable receipt lookup online and job tracking of purchases across all forms of payment. 

With our acquisition of Interline Brands, Inc. ("Interline") in August 2015, we established a platform in the maintenance, repair and operations ("MRO") market where we serve primarily institutional customers (such as educational and healthcare institutions), hospitality businesses, and national apartment complexes. We also gained additional competencies relevant to our large professional customers, including outside sales and account management, expanded assortment of product, expanded financing options and last mile delivery capabilities.

 2
We recognize that our Pros have differing needs depending on the type of work they perform. Our goal is to develop a comprehensive set of capabilities for our professional customers to provide solutions across every purchase opportunity, such as supplying both recurring MRO needs and renovation products and services to property managers or providing inventory management solutions for specialty tradesmen’s replenishment needs. We believe that by bringing our best resources to bear for each individual customer, we can provide a differentiated customer experience and enhanced value proposition for our professional customers.

We help our DIY, DIFM and Pro customers finance their projects by offering private label credit products through third-party credit providers. Our private label credit program includes other benefits, such as a 365-day return policy and, for our Pros, commercial fuel rewards and extended payment terms. In fiscal 2016, our customers opened approximately 4.2 million new The Home Depot private label credit accounts, and at fiscal year end the total number of The Home Depot active account holders was approximately 13 million. Private label credit card sales accounted for approximately 23% of sales in fiscal 2016. 

Our Associates. Our associates are key to our customer experience. We empower our associates to deliver excellent customer service, and we strive to remove complexity and inefficient processes from the stores to allow our associates to focus on our customers. In fiscal 2016, we continued to implement new initiatives to improve freight handling in the stores, as well as Project Sync, which is discussed in more detail below under "Logistics". All of these programs are designed to make our freight handling process more efficient, which allows our associates to devote more time to the customer experience and makes working at The Home Depot a better experience for them. We also have a number of programs to recognize stores and individual associates for exceptional customer service. 

At the end of fiscal 2016, we employed approximately 406,000 associates, of whom approximately 27,000 were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly or temporary basis. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and wage levels in each market we serve. We measure associate satisfaction regularly, and we believe that our employee relations are very good.

Interconnected Retail. In fiscal 2016, we continued to enhance our customers’ interconnected shopping experiences through a variety of initiatives. Our associates continued to use FIRST phones, our web-enabled handheld devices, to help customers complete online sales in the aisle, expedite the checkout process for customers during peak traffic periods, locate products in the aisles and online, and check inventory on hand. We have also empowered our customers with improved product location and inventory availability tools on our website and mobile app. During fiscal 2016, we launched a redesign of our website to provide our customers with better search capabilities and a faster checkout experience, and we upgraded our mobile app. Enhancements to our online and mobile properties are critical for our increasingly interconnected customers who research products online and then go into one of our stores to view the products in person or talk to an associate before making the purchase. While in the store, customers may also go online to access ratings and reviews, compare prices, view our extended assortment and purchase products.

We also recognize that customers desire greater flexibility and convenience when it comes to receiving their products and services. We strive to deliver on this customer expectation by blending the physical and digital channels into a seamless customer experience. A key component of this strategy is enabled through our new Customer Order Management platform ("COM"), which we rolled out to all U.S. stores in fiscal 2016. COM provides a common management system for customer orders, providing greater visibility and a more seamless and frictionless experience for our customers and associates. COM also provides the foundation for the enhanced delivery option we rolled out to all U.S. stores in fiscal 2016: Buy Online, Deliver From Store ("BODFS"). BODFS allows customers to schedule a specific delivery window, and it complements our existing interconnected retail programs: Buy Online, Pick-up In Store ("BOPIS"), Buy Online, Ship to Store ("BOSS") and Buy Online, Return In Store ("BORIS"). During the year, we also enabled a dynamic ETA (estimated time of arrival) feature for online orders, which provides our customers with a faster and more accurate delivery date based on their location.

We do not view the customer experience as a specific transaction; rather, it encompasses an entire process from inspiration and know-how, to purchase and fulfillment, to post-purchase care and support. Further, we believe that by connecting our stores to online and online to our stores, we drive sales not just in-store but also online. In fiscal 2016, we saw increased traffic to our online properties and improved online sales conversion rates. Sales from our online channels increased over 19% compared to fiscal 2015. We will continue to blend our physical and digital assets in a seamless and frictionless way to enhance the end-to-end customer experience.

 3
Product Authority

Product authority is facilitated by our merchandising transformation and portfolio strategy, which is focused on delivering product innovation, assortment and value. In fiscal 2016, we continued to introduce a wide range of innovative new products to our DIY, DIFM and Pro customers, while remaining focused on offering everyday values in our stores and online. 

Our Products. A typical The Home Depot store stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 products during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary items. To enhance our merchandising capabilities, we continued to make improvements to our information technology tools in fiscal 2016 to better understand our customers, provide more localized assortments to fit customer demand and optimize space to dedicate the right square footage to the right products in the right location. Our online product offerings complement our stores by serving as an extended aisle, and we offer a significantly broader product assortment through our websites, including homedepot.com and Blinds.com. We also routinely use our merchandising tools to refine our online assortment to balance the extended choice with a more curated offering.

In fiscal 2016, we introduced a number of innovative and distinctive products to our customers at attractive values. Examples of these new products include Feit® LED Edge-Lit flat panel lighting; Pergo® Outlast+ flooring; Thomasville® Studio 1904 kitchen cabinets; DEWALT FLEXVOLT® system for power tools; Diablo® carbide hole saws; Defiant® LED security lights; Makita® subcompact drills; and Milwaukee M18 FUEL® with ONE KEY™ power tools, compatible with the HIGH DEMAND™ 9.0Ah battery.

During fiscal 2016, we continued to offer value to our customers through our proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of departments. Highlights of these offerings include Husky® hand tools, tool storage and work benches; Everbilt® hardware and fasteners; Hampton Bay® lighting, ceiling fans and patio furniture; Vigoro® lawn care products; RIDGID® and Ryobi® power tools; Glacier Bay® bath fixtures; HDX® storage and cleaning products; and Home Decorators Collection® furniture and home décor. We will continue to assess departments and categories, both online and in-store, for opportunities to expand the assortment of products offered within The Home Depot’s portfolio of proprietary and exclusive brands.

We maintain a global sourcing program to obtain high-quality and innovative products directly from manufacturers around the world. In fiscal 2016, in addition to our U.S. sourcing operations, we maintained sourcing offices in Mexico, Canada, China, India, Southeast Asia and Europe.

The percentage of Net Sales of each of our major product categories (and related services) for each of the last three fiscal years is presented in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". Net Sales inside the U.S. were $86.6 billion, $80.5 billion and $74.7 billion for fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Net Sales outside the U.S. were $8.0 billion, $8.0 billion and $8.5 billion for fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Long-lived assets, which consist of net property and equipment, inside the U.S. totaled $19.5 billion, $19.9 billion and $20.2 billion as of January 29, 2017, January 31, 2016 and February 1, 2015, respectively. Long-lived assets outside the U.S. totaled $2.4 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion as of January 29, 2017, January 31, 2016 and February 1, 2015, respectively.

Quality Assurance. Our suppliers are obligated to ensure that their products comply with applicable international, federal, state and local laws. In addition, we have both quality assurance and engineering resources dedicated to establishing criteria and overseeing compliance with safety, quality and performance standards for our proprietary branded products. We also have a global Supplier Social and Environmental Responsibility Program designed to ensure that suppliers adhere to the highest standards of social and environmental responsibility.

Environmentally-Preferred Products and Programs. The Home Depot is committed to sustainable business practices – from the environmental impact of our operations, to our sourcing activities, to our involvement within the communities in which we do business. We believe these efforts continue to be successful in creating value for our customers and shareholders. For example, we offer a growing selection of environmentally-preferred products, which supports sustainability and helps our customers save energy, water and money. Through our Eco Options® Program introduced in 2007, we have created product categories that allow customers to easily identify products that meet specifications for energy efficiency, water conservation, healthy home, clean air and sustainable forestry. As of the end of fiscal 2016, our Eco Options® Program included over 10,000 products. Through this program, we sell ENERGY STAR® certified appliances, LED light bulbs, tankless water heaters and other products that enable our customers to save on their utility bills. We estimate that in fiscal 2016 we helped customers save over $900 million in electricity costs through sales of ENERGY STAR® certified products. We also estimate our customers saved over 76 billion gallons of water resulting in over $640 million in water bill savings in fiscal 2016 through the sales of our WaterSense®-labeled bath faucets, showerheads, aerators, toilets and irrigation controllers. Our 2016 

 4
Responsibility Report, available on our website at https://corporate.homedepot.com/responsibility, describes many of our other environmentally-preferred products that promote energy efficiency, water conservation, clean air and a healthy home.

We continue to offer store recycling programs nationwide, such as an in-store compact fluorescent light ("CFL") bulb recycling program launched in 2008. This service is offered to customers free of charge and is available in all U.S. stores. We also maintain an in-store rechargeable battery recycling program. Launched in 2001 and currently done in partnership with Call2Recycle, this program is also available to customers free of charge in all stores throughout the U.S. Through our recycling programs, in fiscal 2016 we helped recycle over 860,000 pounds of CFL bulbs and over 1 million pounds of rechargeable batteries. In fiscal 2016, we also recycled over 180,000 lead acid batteries collected from our customers under our lead acid battery exchange program, as well as over 225,000 tons of cardboard through a nationwide cardboard recycling program across our U.S. operations. We believe our environmentally-preferred product selection and our recycling efforts drive sales, which in turn benefits our shareholders, in addition to our customers and the environment.

Seasonality. Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume occurs either during our first or fourth fiscal quarter. 

Competition. Our industry is highly competitive, with competition based primarily on customer experience, price, store location and appearance, and quality, availability, assortment and presentation of merchandise. Although we are currently the world’s largest home improvement retailer, in each of the markets we serve there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses, and lumber yards. With respect to some products and services, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, paint stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores, MRO companies and other retailers, as well as with providers of home improvement services. In addition, we face growing competition from online and multichannel retailers, some of whom may have a lower cost structure than ours, as our customers now routinely use computers, tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices to shop online and compare prices and products.

Intellectual Property. Our business has one of the most recognized brands in North America. As a result, we believe that The Home Depot® trademark has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our products, e-commerce, stores and business. We have registered or applied for registration of trademarks, service marks, copyrights and internet domain names, both domestically and internationally, for use in our business, including our expanding proprietary brands such as HDX®, Husky®, Hampton Bay®, Home Decorators Collection®, Glacier Bay® and Vigoro®. We also maintain patent portfolios relating to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect innovations we incorporate into our products or business operations.

Productivity and Efficiency Driven by Capital Allocation

We continue to drive productivity and efficiency by building best-in-class competitive advantages in our information technology and supply chain to ensure product availability for our customers while managing our costs, which results in higher returns for our shareholders. During fiscal 2016, we continued to focus on optimizing our end-to-end supply chain network and improving our inventory, transportation and distribution productivity.

Logistics. We continue to invest in our supply chain by optimizing our network through initiatives like Supply Chain Synchronization, or "Project Sync". As described in more detail below, Project Sync is a recent initiative to improve our in-stock rates, inventory productivity and logistics costs. During fiscal 2016, we rolled out the first phase of Project Sync to all U.S. stores, and we continue to onboard new suppliers. This is a multi-year, multi-phase endeavor, which we plan to implement in each of our distribution flow paths.

Our overall distribution strategy is to provide the optimal flow path for a given product. Rapid Deployment Centers ("RDCs") play a key role in optimizing our network as they allow for aggregation of product needs for multiple stores to a single purchase order and then rapid allocation and deployment of inventory to individual stores upon arrival at the RDC. This results in a simplified ordering process and improved transportation and inventory management. Through Project Sync, we can significantly reduce our average lead time from supplier to shelf. Project Sync requires deep collaboration among our suppliers, transportation providers, RDCs and stores, as well as rigorous planning and information technology development to create an engineered flow schedule that shortens and stabilizes lead time, resulting in more predictable and consistent freight flow. As we continue to roll out Project Sync throughout our supply chain over the next several years, we plan to create an end-to-end solution that benefits all participants in our supply chain, from our suppliers to our transportation providers to our RDC and store associates to our customers.

Over the past several years, we have centralized our inventory planning and replenishment function and continuously improved our forecasting and replenishment technology. This has helped us improve our product availability and our 

 5
inventory productivity at the same time. At the end of fiscal 2016, over 95% of our U.S. store products were ordered through central inventory management.

We operate multiple distribution center platforms tailored to meet the needs of our stores and customers, based on the types of products, local geography, and transportation and delivery requirements. The following table sets forth the number and type of distribution centers in our network as of the end of fiscal 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

To better serve our online customers, we offer a variety of delivery methods to get product to each customer’s preferred location. We completed the rollout of three new U.S. DFCs in fiscal 2015 to support our online growth. We also operate one DFC for our Home Decorators Collection orders and one DFC for "big and bulky" orders. Our DFCs enable us to reduce delivery costs and lead time, and improve the overall customer experience by shipping online orders directly to the customer. In addition, with our acquisition of Interline in fiscal 2015, we added more than 100 distribution points with fast delivery of a broad assortment of MRO products. We remain committed to leveraging our supply chain capabilities to fully utilize and optimize our improved logistics network.

In addition to the distribution and fulfillment centers described above, we leverage our almost 2,000 U.S. stores as a network of convenient customer pick-up, return and delivery fulfillment locations. For customers who shop online and wish to pick-up or return merchandise at our U.S. stores, we have fully implemented our BOPIS, BOSS and BORIS programs, which we believe provide us with a competitive advantage. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, approximately 45% of our online U.S. orders were picked up in a store. For customers who would like the option to have store-based orders delivered directly to their home or job site, we pick, pack and ship orders to customers from our stores. Our BODFS program, which we rolled out in fiscal 2016, allows our customers to select their preferred delivery date and time windows for store-based deliveries. Our supply chain and logistics strategies will continue to be focused on providing our customers high product availability with convenient and low cost fulfillment options. 

Commitment to Sustainability and Environmentally Responsible Operations. The Home Depot focuses on sustainable operations and is committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner. This commitment impacts all areas of our business, including energy usage, supply chain and packaging, store construction and maintenance, and, as noted above under "Environmentally-Preferred Products and Programs", product selection and recycling programs for our customers.

In 2015, we announced two major sustainability commitments for 2020. Our first goal is to reduce our U.S. stores’ energy use by 20% over 2010 levels, and our second goal is to produce and procure, on an annual basis, 135 megawatts of energy for our stores through renewable or alternate energy sources, such as wind, solar and fuel cell technology. As of the end of fiscal 2016, we are on track to exceed both of our goals before the end of 2020. We are committed to implementing strict operational standards that establish energy efficient operations in all of our U.S. facilities and continuing to invest in renewable energy. 

 6
Additionally, we implemented a rainwater reclamation project in our stores in 2010. As of the end of fiscal 2016, 145 of our stores used reclamation tanks to collect rainwater and condensation from HVAC units and garden center roofs, which is in turn used to water plants in our outside garden centers. We estimate our annual water savings from these units to be over 500,000 gallons per store for total water savings of over 72.5 million gallons in fiscal 2016. Our 2016 Responsibility Report, which uses the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework for sustainability reporting, provides more information on sustainability efforts in other aspects of our operations. Our 2016 Responsibility Report is available on our website at https://corporate.homedepot.com/responsibility.

Our commitment to corporate sustainability has resulted in a number of environmental awards and recognitions. In 2016, we received three significant awards from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). The ENERGY STAR® division named us "Retail Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence" for our overall excellence in energy efficiency, and we received the 2016 WaterSense® Sustained Excellence Award for our overall excellence in water efficiency. We also received the EPA’s "SmartWay Excellence Award", which recognizes The Home Depot as an industry leader in freight supply chain environmental performance and energy efficiency. We also participate in the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) reporting process. CDP is an independent, international, not-for-profit organization providing a global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share environmental information. In 2016, we received a score of A- (out of a range from A to E) from the CDP, reflecting a high level of action on climate change mitigation, adaptation and transparency. We also were named an industry leader by the CDP.

We are strongly committed to maintaining a safe shopping and working environment for our customers and associates. Our Environmental, Health & Safety ("EH&S") function is dedicated to ensuring the health and safety of our customers and associates, with trained associates who evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a Company-wide basis. Our EH&S policies are woven into our everyday operations and are part of The Home Depot culture. Some common program elements include: daily store inspection checklists (by department); routine follow-up audits from our store-based safety team members and regional, district and store operations field teams; equipment enhancements and preventative maintenance programs to promote physical safety; departmental merchandising safety standards; training and education programs for all associates, with varying degrees of training provided based on an associate’s role and responsibilities; and awareness, communication and recognition programs designed to drive operational awareness and understanding of EH&S issues.

Returning Value to Shareholders. As noted above, we drive productivity and efficiency through our capital allocation decisions, with a focus on expense control. This discipline drove higher returns on invested capital and allowed us to return value to shareholders through $7.0 billion in share repurchases and $3.4 billion in dividends in fiscal 2016, as discussed in Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations".

Item 1A. Risk Factors.