Item 1A. Risk Factors.

The risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction with "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Item 8. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report generally because we do not currently perceive them to be material. Those factors could cause results to differ materially from our expectations.

Strong competition could adversely affect prices and demand for our products and services and could decrease our market share.

We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We compete principally based on customer experience, price, store location and appearance, and quality, availability, assortment and presentation of merchandise. In each market we serve, there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With respect to some products and services, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, paint stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores, MRO companies and other retailers, as well as with providers of home improvement services. In addition, we face growing competition from online and multichannel retailers, some of whom may have a lower cost structure than ours, as our customers now routinely use computers, tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices to shop online and compare prices and products in real time. We use our marketing, advertising and promotional programs to drive customer traffic and compete more effectively, and we must regularly assess and adjust our efforts to address changes in the competitive landscape. Intense competitive pressures from one or more of our competitors, such as through aggressive promotional pricing or liquidation events, or our inability to adapt effectively and quickly to a changing competitive landscape could affect our prices, our 

 7
margins or demand for our products and services. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to these competitive pressures, including through the delivery of a superior customer experience or maintenance of effective marketing, advertising or promotional programs, our market share and our financial performance could be adversely affected.

We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer needs, expectations or trends, which could adversely affect our relationship with customers, our reputation, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.

The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond promptly to evolving trends in demographics; consumer preferences, expectations and needs; and unexpected weather conditions, while also managing appropriate inventory levels and maintaining an excellent customer experience. It is difficult to successfully predict the products and services our customers will demand. As we continue to see increasing strength in the housing and home improvement market, resulting changes in demand will put further pressure on our ability to meet customer needs and expectations and maintain high service levels. In addition, each of our primary customer groups – DIY, DIFM and Pro – have different needs and expectations, many of which evolve as the demographics in a particular customer group change. We also need to offer more localized assortments of our merchandise to appeal to local cultural and demographic tastes within each customer group. If we do not successfully differentiate the shopping experience to meet the individual needs and expectations of – or within – a customer group, we may lose market share with respect to those customers. 

Customer expectations about the methods by which they purchase and receive products or services are also becoming more demanding. Customers now routinely use technology and mobile devices to rapidly compare products and prices, determine real-time product availability and purchase products. Once products are purchased, customers are seeking alternate options for delivery of those products, and they often expect quick and low-cost delivery. We must continually anticipate and adapt to these changes in the purchasing process. We have implemented programs like BOSS, BOPIS, BODFS and direct fulfillment, but we cannot guarantee that these programs or others we may implement will be implemented successfully or will meet customers’ needs and expectations. Customers are also using social media to provide feedback and information about our Company and products and services in a manner that can be quickly and broadly disseminated. To the extent a customer has a negative experience and shares it over social media, it may impact our brand and reputation. 

Further, we have an aging store base that requires maintenance and space reallocation initiatives to deliver the shopping experience that our customers desire. We must also maintain a safe store environment for our customers and associates. Failure to maintain our stores and utilize our store space effectively; to provide a compelling online presence; to timely identify or respond to changing consumer preferences, expectations and home improvement needs; to provide quick and low-cost delivery alternatives; to differentiate the customer experience for our three primary customer groups; and to effectively implement an increasingly localized merchandising assortment could adversely affect our relationship with customers, our reputation, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.

Our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified associates while also controlling our labor costs.

Our customers expect a high level of customer service and product knowledge from our associates. To meet the needs and expectations of our customers, we must attract, develop and retain a large number of highly qualified associates while at the same time controlling labor costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs, as well as the impact of legislation or regulations governing labor relations, minimum wage, or healthcare benefits. An inability to provide wages and/or benefits that are competitive within the markets in which we operate could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract employees. In addition, we compete with other retail businesses for many of our associates in hourly positions, and we invest significant resources in training and motivating them to maintain a high level of job satisfaction. These positions have historically had high turnover rates, which can lead to increased training and retention costs, particularly as the economy continues to improve and the labor market tightens. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified associates in the future.

A failure of a key information technology system or process could adversely affect our business.

We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed or provided by third-party service providers, to analyze, process, store, manage and protect transactions and data. In managing our business, we also rely heavily on the integrity of, security of and consistent access to this data for information such as sales, merchandise ordering, inventory replenishment and order fulfillment. For these information technology systems and processes to operate effectively, we or our service providers must periodically maintain and update them. Our systems and the third-party systems on which we rely are subject to damage or interruption from a number of causes, including power outages; computer and telecommunications failures; computer viruses; security breaches; cyber-attacks, including the use of ransomware; 

 8
catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, or hurricanes; acts of war or terrorism; and design or usage errors by our associates, contractors or third-party service providers. Although we and our third-party service providers seek to maintain our respective systems effectively and to successfully address the risk of compromise of the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems, such efforts may not be successful. As a result, we or our service providers could experience errors, interruptions, delays or cessations of service in key portions of our information technology infrastructure, which could significantly disrupt our operations and be costly, time consuming and resource-intensive to remedy.

Disruptions in our customer-facing technology systems could impair our interconnected retail strategy and give rise to negative customer experiences.

Through our information technology developments, we are able to provide an improved overall shopping and interconnected retail experience that empowers our customers to shop and interact with us from computers, tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices. We use our websites and our mobile app both as sales channels for our products and also as methods of providing product, project and other relevant information to our customers to drive both in-store and online sales. We have multiple online communities and knowledge centers that allow us to inform, assist and interact with our customers. Multichannel retailing is continually evolving and expanding, and we must effectively respond to changing customer preferences and new developments. We also continually seek to enhance all of our online properties to provide an attractive user-friendly interface for our customers, as evidenced by our recent redesign of our homedepot.com website. Disruptions, failures or other performance issues with these customer-facing technology systems could impair the benefits that they provide to our online and in-store business and negatively affect our relationship with our customers.

If our efforts to maintain the privacy and security of customer, associate, supplier and Company information are not successful, we could incur substantial additional costs and reputational damage, and could become subject to further litigation and enforcement actions.

Our business, like that of most retailers, involves the receipt, storage and transmission of customers’ personal information, preferences and payment card information, as well as other confidential information, such as personal information about our associates and our suppliers and confidential Company information. We also work with third-party service providers and vendors that provide technology, systems and services that we use in connection with the receipt, storage and transmission of this information. Our information systems, and those of our third-party service providers and vendors, are vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving data protection and cybersecurity risks. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to these systems or our information through fraud or other means of deceiving our associates, third-party service providers or vendors. Hardware, software or applications we develop or obtain from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. The methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are also constantly changing and evolving and may be difficult to anticipate or detect for long periods of time. We have implemented and regularly review and update processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of data and to prevent data loss. However, the ever-evolving threats mean we and our third-party service providers and vendors must continually evaluate and adapt our respective systems and processes and overall security environment, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, system compromises or misuses of data. Any future significant compromise or breach of our data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of customer, associate, supplier or Company data, could result in significant costs, lost sales, fines, lawsuits, and damage to our reputation. In addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, compliance with those requirements could also result in significant costs.

We are subject to payment-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business.

We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, PayPal, our private label credit cards, an installment loan program, trade credit, and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time. Acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. These requirements may change over time or be reinterpreted, making compliance more difficult or costly. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. If these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could potentially disrupt our business. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by criminals, who are becoming increasingly more sophisticated, seeking to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. If we 

 9
fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which may result in a shift to other payment types or potential changes to our payment systems that may result in higher costs. As a result, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.

Uncertainty regarding the housing market, economic conditions, political climate and other factors beyond our control could adversely affect demand for our products and services, our costs of doing business and our financial performance.

Our financial performance depends significantly on the stability of the housing, residential construction and home improvement markets, as well as general economic conditions, including changes in gross domestic product. Adverse conditions in or uncertainty about these markets, the economy or the political climate could adversely impact our customers’ confidence or financial condition, causing them to determine not to purchase home improvement products and services, causing them to delay purchasing decisions, or impacting their ability to pay for products and services. Other factors beyond our control – including unemployment and foreclosure rates; interest rate fluctuations; fuel and other energy costs; labor and healthcare costs; the availability of financing; the state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit; weather; natural disasters; acts of terrorism and other conditions beyond our control – could further adversely affect demand for our products and services, our costs of doing business and our financial performance.

If we fail to identify and develop relationships with a sufficient number of qualified suppliers, or if our suppliers experience financial difficulties or other challenges, our ability to timely and efficiently access products that meet our high standards for quality could be adversely affected.

We buy our products from suppliers located throughout the world. Our ability to continue to identify and develop relationships with qualified suppliers who can satisfy our high standards for quality and responsible sourcing, as well as our need to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge. Our ability to access products from our suppliers can be adversely affected by political instability, military conflict, acts of terrorism, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ noncompliance with applicable laws, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, any disruptions in our suppliers’ logistics or supply chain networks, and other factors beyond our or our suppliers’ control.

The implementation of our supply chain and technology initiatives could disrupt our operations in the near term, and these initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might fail.

We have made, and we plan to continue to make, significant investments in our supply chain and information technology systems. These initiatives, such as Project Sync and COM, our new Customer Order Management system, are designed to streamline our operations to allow our associates to continue to provide high-quality service to our customers, while simplifying customer interaction and providing our customers with a more interconnected retail experience. The cost and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of these initiatives, including those associated with managing third-party service providers and employing new web-based tools and services, could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term and lead to product availability issues. Failure to choose the right investments and implement them in the right manner and at the right pace could disrupt our operations. In addition, our improved supply chain and new or upgraded information technology systems might not provide the anticipated benefits, it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits, or the initiatives might fail altogether, each of which could adversely impact our competitive position and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Disruptions in our supply chain and other factors affecting the distribution of our merchandise could adversely impact our business.

A disruption within our logistics or supply chain network could adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory in a timely manner, which could impair our ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales, increased supply chain costs or damage to our reputation. Such disruptions may result from damage or destruction to our distribution centers; weather-related events; natural disasters; trade policy changes or restrictions; tariffs or import-related taxes; third-party strikes, lock-outs, work stoppages or slowdowns; shipping capacity constraints; supply or shipping interruptions or costs; or other factors beyond our control. Any such disruption could negatively impact our financial performance or financial condition.

 10
If we are unable to effectively manage and expand our alliances and relationships with selected suppliers of both brand name and proprietary products, we may be unable to effectively execute our strategy to differentiate ourselves from our competitors.

As part of our focus on product differentiation, we have formed strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market products under a variety of well-recognized brand names. We have also developed relationships with selected suppliers to allow us to market proprietary products that are comparable to national brands. Our proprietary products differentiate us from other retailers, generally carry higher margins than national brand products, and represent a growing portion of our business. If we are unable to manage and expand these alliances and relationships or identify alternative sources for comparable brand name and proprietary products, we may not be able to effectively execute product differentiation, which may impact our sales and gross margin results.

Our proprietary products subject us to certain increased risks.

As we expand our proprietary product offerings, we may become subject to increased risks due to our greater role in the design, manufacture, marketing and sale of those products. The risks include greater responsibility to administer and comply with applicable regulatory requirements, increased potential product liability and product recall exposure and increased potential reputational risks related to the responsible sourcing of those products. To effectively execute on our product differentiation strategy, we must also be able to successfully protect our proprietary rights and successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties. In addition, an increase in sales of our proprietary products may adversely affect sales of our vendors’ products, which in turn could adversely affect our relationships with certain of our vendors. Any failure to appropriately address some or all of these risks could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

If we are unable to manage effectively our installation services business, we could suffer lost sales and be subject to fines, lawsuits and reputational damage, or the loss of our general contractor licenses.

We act as a general contractor to provide installation services to our DIFM customers through professional third-party installers. As such, we are subject to regulatory requirements and risks applicable to general contractors, which include management of licensing, permitting and quality of work performed by our third-party installers. We have established processes and procedures to manage these requirements and ensure customer satisfaction with the services provided by our third-party installers. However, if we fail to manage these processes effectively or to provide proper oversight of these services, we could suffer lost sales, fines and lawsuits for violations of regulatory requirements, as well as for property damage or personal injury. In addition, we may suffer damage to our reputation or the loss of our general contractor licenses, which could adversely affect our business. 

We may be unsuccessful in implementing our growth strategy, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operation.

In fiscal 2015, we completed the acquisition of Interline, which we believe has enhanced our ability to serve our professional customers and increased our share of the MRO market. During fiscal 2016, we continued to develop and implement our strategy with Interline. Our goal is to serve all of our different Pro customer groups through one integrated approach to drive growth and capture market share in the retail, services and MRO markets, and this strategy depends, in part, on our continuing integration of Interline. As with any acquisition, we need to successfully integrate Interline’s products, services, associates and systems into our business operations. Integration can be a complex and time-consuming process, and if the integration is not fully successful or is delayed for a material period of time, we may not achieve the anticipated synergies or benefits of the acquisition. Furthermore, even if Interline is successfully integrated, the acquisition may fail to further our business strategy as anticipated, expose us to increased competition or challenges with respect to our products or services, and expose us to additional liabilities associated with the Interline business and the wholesale market.

Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in, expanded enforcement of, or adoption of new federal, state or local laws and regulations.

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern numerous aspects of our business. In recent years, a number of new laws and regulations have been adopted, and there has been expanded enforcement of certain existing laws and regulations by federal, state and local agencies. These laws and regulations, and related interpretations and enforcement activity, may change as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. Changes in, expanded enforcement of, or adoption of new federal, state or local laws and regulations governing minimum wage or living wage requirements; other wage, labor or workplace regulations; healthcare; data protection and cybersecurity; the sale of some of our products; transportation; logistics; international trade; supply chain transparency; taxes; unclaimed property; 

 11
energy costs; or environmental matters, including with respect to our installation services business, could increase our costs of doing business or impact our operations.

If we cannot successfully manage the unique challenges presented by international markets, we may not be successful in our international operations and our sales and profit margins may be impacted.

Our ability to successfully conduct retail operations in, and source products and materials from, international markets is affected by many of the same risks we face in our U.S. operations, as well as unique costs and difficulties of managing international operations. Our international operations, including any expansion in international markets, may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, U.S. laws applicable to foreign operations and other legal and regulatory constraints, as well as political and economic conditions. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, potential adverse tax consequences; potential tariffs and other import-related taxes; greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights; risks associated with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local anti-bribery law compliance; and challenges in our ability to identify and gain access to local suppliers. In addition, our operations in international markets create risk due to foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates, which may adversely impact our sales and profit margins. 

The inflation or deflation of commodity prices could affect our prices, demand for our products, our sales and our profit margins.

Prices of certain commodity products, including lumber and other raw materials, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices may affect the demand for our products, our sales and our profit margins.

Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition.

Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, lease obligations, self-insurance, tax matters and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition.

We have incurred losses related to the data breach we discovered in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 (the "Data Breach"); we may incur additional losses or experience future operational impacts on our business, which could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial results and reputation.

The Data Breach involved the theft of certain payment card information and customer email addresses through unauthorized access to our systems. Since the Data Breach occurred, we have recorded $198 million of pretax expenses, net of expected insurance recoveries, in connection with the Data Breach, as described in more detail in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". We are still facing a consolidated shareholder derivative action brought by two purported shareholders and an investigation by a number of State Attorneys General. These matters may adversely affect how we operate our business, divert the attention of management from the operation of the business, have an adverse effect on our reputation, and result in additional costs and fines.

We are involved in a number of legal and regulatory proceedings, and while we cannot predict the outcomes of those proceedings and other contingencies with certainty, some of these outcomes may adversely affect our operations or increase our costs.

In addition to the matters discussed above with respect to the Data Breach, we are involved in a number of legal proceedings and regulatory matters, including government inquiries and investigations, and consumer, employment, tort and other litigation that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of some of these proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking actions which could adversely affect our operations or could result in excessive adverse verdicts. Additionally, involvement in these lawsuits, investigations and inquiries, and other proceedings may involve significant expense, divert management’s attention and resources from other matters, and impact the reputation of the Company.

 12
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

Not applicable.

Item 2. Properties.